- [Instructor] In this lesson, we'll take a look
at how navigation occurs within a JSF application.
First we're going to set our headers to be links
so that we can navigate between the form
and the catalog, so within the HTML tag library,
you'll find a link tag and that's basically going to create
an anchor tag in the HTML so that we can navigate
between the pages, and we can set the value to our property
pulled from the resource bundle that we created
and then we need to provide an outcome
and the outcome is simply the name of the page
we would like to navigate to, so in this case we want
to navigate to the form and we can go ahead
and close out that tag and then we're going to copy it
because we're going to create another link
for our catalog so just organize that HTML a little bit
and then we'll reference the list property
and then we'll just change the outcome over to list
I'm then going to copy this page header,
because we can place it over on the list page as well
so that we have the same navigation,
and let's also just put a pipe in there to add
a little bit of style.
Okay so there we'll be able to navigate
between those two pages, let's look at another way
that we can navigate within JSF.
So what if we need to path some data when we navigate?
We're going to take a look here in the list,
you'll notice I've started a column for us
and we're going to add another link,
and for the value of this link it's going to be remove.
Because we're creating a link that's going to allow us
to remove an item from the catalog
and the outcome is going to point to a confirm facelet
that we've created.
So if you take a look within the project
you'll see a confirmation page
and it's basically going to ask an end user
if they're sure they would like to delete the item.
Now we need to know what item they're attempting
to delete, that information is important
for the confirmation page.
So what we can do within the body of the link
we can pass a parameter using the facelets tag library.
You'll find a parameter tag
and we just set the name of that parameter
and then we can bind this to our backing bean
and in this case it's going to be the item ID
of the item that we'd like to remove.
So we have our link set up and now once that parameter
is passed, we need to do something on the confirmation page
in order to grab that parameter
and select the appropriate item.
So within the confirmation page we're going to use
another tag and that's the metadata tag
and this allows us to extract information from the request
and do something with it.
So the first thing we're going to do is add,
a view param tag and here's where we specify
that we'd like to get the item ID that was passed over
from the confirmation page and then we're going to bind that
to a field on our backing bean.
So you'll notice that the catalog item delete bean
has been created and if we take a look
you'll see that there's an item ID field
on that bean that is along.
So right here is that bean that's been prepositioned,
that way we can quickly work through this lesson.
We've already covered backing beans.
You'll notice that we have this fetch item method
and that's basically going into our collection
of items found within the catalog item form bean
and selecting the item with the corresponding item ID
so we need to invoke that when we come into
this confirmation page.
So to do that we use another tag,
and that's the key event tag.
So let's add that on to our confirmation page
and we specified the type of event
and this is going to be a pre-render view event
and this event will be invoked before we display
the view so if we need to do that sort of logic
where we grab the item from the collection,
it's the perfect place to do it.
And then what we do is we assign a listener
and we're able to bind to a method on our backing bean
that will be invoked when this event occurs.
So there is the fetch item method
that we just took a look at and now we have that in place.
Now if we look at our confirmation page,
you'll see that we display the details of the item.
That item is going to be assigned to this item field
on our backing bean and the fetch item method
is going to cause that item field to be populated
and then if we look further down you'll see
the remove item method and we can take a quick look at that.
It's simply going to remove the item from the collection
and then navigate us back to the list.
So with this in place let's go ahead
and we can run our application, I'll just right click,
run as run on server, see it start up here.
I'll just start opening a browser.
We can then go to our form, so let's go ahead
we can add the gloves in and we can say super gloves
are the manufacturer, we'll add in our date
and then we'll just add a quick description.
We can place that into the list, let's go back now.
We'll navigate to the form
and now we're going to put in mittens
and we'll just say super mittens.
You'll notice that gets added to the list
and then I'll click on super gloves.
You'll notice it populates the item which is bound
to our confirmation page and then we can go ahead
say we do want to remove it, and there go the gloves.
So we saw several ways we can navigate as well as pass data
during that navigation.
It's going to be critical that you understand this
when building out JSF applications.